NOTES:

Functional Programming:
A pure function is a function that given the same type of input will always return the same output,
it is not dependent on a local or global state.
  Major Principal is avoid mutable state.
  - Input to function is immutable
  - Function does not involve in modifying anything (variables) outside of its scope
  - Code in declarative style
  - Reducing Concurrency issue

  Functional programming
Put very simply, functional programming is a language that focuses on the computation of pure functions. The keyword there is ‘pure’ — everything revolves around keeping everything ‘pure’. What exactly do we mean by pure?

There is a complete separation between the data of a program, and the behaviors of a program
All objects created in functional programming are immutable (once something is created, it can’t be changed)
Shared state is avoided (objects do not share scope with other objects)
Adherence to pure functions (explained below)
Pure functions
A pure function is a function where:

The return value only depends on the input (if you input the same value, you will always return the same value)
There are no side effects (for example: no network or database calls which could affect the return value)
They do not alter the data that was passed into them. We only want to describe how the input will be changed (think destructive vs non-destructive)
Here are some examples of an impure function:

function number(num){
  num * Math.random()
}
function hello(greeting){
  console.log(greeting)
}
var totalPeople = 10
function totalVotes(votes){
 return votes * totalPeople
}
The outcome of number has nothing to do with what we input into it with num, as it is multiplying the input with a random number. Not pure! With pure functions, we ONLY care about return values. So, the function hello isn’t pure in the fact that it is creating a ‘side-effect’, which is the console logging. The function totalVotes depends on a variable outside of its scope (shared state!), which is a no no!

Here’s an example of a pure function:

function plusTwo(num){
  return num + 2
}
